what happens when there is no economy
left what happens when the wells run dry
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you in today's video we
are going to look at this we are going
to investigate what happens when there's
nothing left when we have hit a point of
no return when we simply can't dig
ourselves out of this mess any more
analogies you want to use look let me
show you you've got Jamie demon here
this guy has been talking about a
recession and talking about an econ that
is suffering for you know basically
since 2020 he's been out there
constantly constantly talking about it
and now this JP Morgan CEO diamond or
demon says US economy is booming I
thought to myself are you sure that's
what he said because he's been saying
the exact opposite thing for all this
time look this is what he said the US
economic boom is unbelievable even if we
go into recession the consumer is still
in good shape can you believe this he's
saying that the economy is booming and
yet we could go into a
recession what what are you talking
about how could you be in a recession if
everything is not just okay it's
fantastic does that make any sense of
course he's talking about the politics
he's talking about all the all the
things that don't matter but looking at
this just suggesting that I mean I'm I'm
I'm at a loss for words okay so you know
when we see these type of things we have
to start understanding where they're
coming from a lot of their messaging is
simply propaganda it's simply hey I got
a company here I got to protect it or
you know I'm part of this political
party so this is the kind of thing that
we say and that needs to be understood
so ever just take one of these guys
messages as you know face value we need
to understand what's going on at a
deeper level now the one place I love to
look is not just the Federal Reserve
actions but also their words of course
once again I don't just take them at
face value but they're important and you
could see fed's Bostic open to a rate
hike if inflation progress stalls what
do we see prior to this several members
of the OMC not just people at the fed or
former people at the FED we're talking
about fomc members people that vote and
they're talking about not being
confident with um you know inflation not
being confident and that's really
important because that was part of all
of their messages prior they said we
need the confidence we need more
confidence and then suddenly they turn
around using the same word but saying we
don't have the confidence and so that's
an important distinction and that means
they are not ready to cut today today
who knows what's going to happen
tomorrow uh it all depends on inflation
and lucky you know how how are they ever
going to get inflation to come down if
they actually can't control the prices I
mean it it's impossible you let the
genie out of the
bottle you could see here you know he's
saying if inflation stalls out or even
starts moving the opposite direction
away from our Target I don't think we'll
have any option but to respond to that
if it seems at the level of a
restrictiveness that we're at today is
not enough to do the job or get the job
done then I'd be open to increasing
rates now they're asking him in such a
way you know that makes him kind of say
that but of course of course they want
to make it known and it's not just
inside the FED uh where we're talking
about this and the difficulties that are
being experienced but in the case of the
EC B uh what they have said is we we
think we have confidence so they're a
little bit more confident now maybe it
starts to research later but one problem
that Europe definitely has is that there
just isn't that demand there okay it is
deflating like the natural course of
things is deflation and so you know they
can print a whole bunch of money they
can throw a bunch of cash out there and
they could try to do their best to
reverse that they certainly have done a
good job of that printing up trillions
and trillions ions of dollars and buying
up the bonds of the biggest companies in
Europe that that's kind of a fair way to
do it right right everybody yeah okay
there were two clear messages expect a
June cut but be aware of the spillover
effects from the Middle East so we'll
see what happens on that front of course
um knowing that these kind of things
they tend to drag on look at the case of
of Russia right so you know it um just
let me show you this Christine lard she
said we just need to build a bit more
confidence in this disinflationary
process but if it moves according to our
expectations if we don't have a major
shock in development we are headed
towards a moment where we would have to
moderate the restrictive monetary policy
what that what does that mean cut
interest rates that's it that's all they
love to use the jargon they love to use
that word confidence remember I said
that confidence and certainly they would
love to cut interest rates if they could
okay they want to go back into the
negative maybe we'll get there we'll see
okay um just saying barring a major
surprise we should cut rates because
we're not confident enough there's large
consensus so in in Europe depending on
where you're looking they're starting to
say hey this is
important that we tackle this now before
we get to the point in which we've done
too much damage all right they're
ignoring the fact that they all printed
out money but anyway the point is where
they're going is that they're trying to
achieve confidence I'm just trying to
show you what's happening in Europe as
well and then of course we have Bank of
Canada oh my goodness I have nothing
good to say but anyway looking
at this this is hilar I mean Canada's a
loss cause so um Tiff mckam who is the
equivalent of Jerome Powell right says
that central banks will make money AR
policy decisions geared towards their
own economies which means that some
countries May begin cutting interest
rates before others we've all been
Resolute in our commitment to restore
price stability and we match those words
with action that has helped us all bring
inflation down as we enter the next
phase of disinflation countries May
progress at different speeds H that
great ultimately we gear monetary policy
decisions to our own domestic
circumstances saying look we're not
going to look at what's going on in
Europe we're not going to look at the
FED we are simply going to react to
what's happening inside of Canada now
that would be fantastic if true but look
at what's going on with real estate over
the past few years look at rent prices
look at Energy prices look at food
prices you see what's going on more and
more is being extracted out of you your
disposable income has
disappeared or it's on the way out
you can see this yes inflation has
slowed but business but business is
still paying the price and so are you
they're telling us that inflation oh
don't worry everybody inflation's going
down yeah okay well look at some
examples here if you're manufacturing
right now which of course not many
people are but if you're in the
manufacturing
business and for me I'm dealing with
this okay you're paying 11% more for
plastic and
resins 24% more for industrial gases 23%
higher for prices of machinery and
equipment 35% additional cash for the
oil and the grease that lubricates the
machines and it goes on and on what
about this if you're into construction
good news lumber prices are down hey 25%
right but there been more than offset by
a rise in Iron and Steel cement and
concrete stale Staples Nails spikes 20
30%
40% construction material costs have
increased
30% over the last few
years food manufacturing and services
also feel in the pain costs have risen
24% over the past few years fertilizer
up okay on and on on okay you can you
can see all that everything's up
everything is up it's not up 3% it's not
up it's not 3% and it isn't 4% either
it's up a heck of a lot more do you see
what's happening here they are lying to
us boldfaced lies about the inflation
rates and quite frankly the rate the
number doesn't matter it really doesn't
matter what does matter is how much
disposable income you have that's the
real key you've got your mortgage or
rent you've got your car if you got a
car you've got your food and energy
that's it everything else if you want to
buy a new iPhone or whatever that that's
insignificant okay what I
see is people that simply do not have
money anymore and now they're dipping
into debt they are doing whatever they
can to try and pull themselves out of a
dark
time but I have unfortunate news if
you're willing to accept it I'm willing
to give now
okay the situation we have
today is going to be um classified as
the good days the good old
days this is my way of telling you that
you better get your stuff in order
because it's about to get a lot more
difficult now you might think hey if we
get this President this prime minister
this politician this person in in
control then things are going to be
resolved and I can tell you that they
absolutely will not be they might get
better the burn might be slower but it
doesn't work like that Canada is seeing
domestic and foreign investors pull
their cash okay Canada's net flow of
international Securities the balance of
money flowing into Capital markets if
the net flow is negative more Capital
left then arrived and that's what's
happening here and it actually will get
a lot worse as you can see over you know
a several year period what's going to
happen inside of Canada is largely the
same of other places as well people do
not want to invest in a place that's
going down why would you do that why
would you even if you're Canadian why
would you even leave your assets all in
a country that is going for worse and
worse trajectory there might be pockets
and you could do that depends on what
your business is depends on what you're
doing but you got to realize that and
you got to be honest about yourself okay
what's next well I'm seeing a few things
and and this is why I'm telling you that
the next 5 years is a very difficult
period another case of shrinkflation at
Ontario grocery store has people talking
so basically long story short it went
from um you know a one siiz bag then it
gets smaller then it gets smaller of The
Raspberries okay they're just showing
you one example you've seen it many
times before they're shrinking it and in
France actually they're ordering
retailers to display their shrink
flation so hey you shrunk that product
over the last few months you have to
have have that on the label they're
making it a fact now that that doesn't
change anything you're still going to
pay let's say it's $10 for half the
amount you're still paying $10 at the
end of the day okay you're aware of it
but you know if you were used to
something and now you're getting less I
mean you're going to be aware of it if
your stomach is not full right like I
mean what you going to do about that we
got the robots this is showing us robots
that are going to take over household
tasks in this one here we're talking
about Walmart making changes and other
actually other retailers as well but
they're just talking about the self
checkout and what's Happening Here how
they're dealing with it all these
different companies are dealing with it
there's a lot of theft and so on this is
all important stuff because we are going
towards the Robotics and Automation and
everything and you see the changes that
are happening right before our very eyes
so we're moving towards that we're
moving towards less services and we're
moving towards higher prices think about
that where you are today think think
about all the prices of stuff that you
pay think about all the services that
you get you're going to get less
services and you're going to pay a
higher price for them you got to
understand this and as a result of it
what can you do you're not just going to
sit there you're not a rock okay you're
not a rock is just going to be laying
there you you have the chance to move
you got legs you can do that and so you
have to start taking action wherever it
is you can you can make a income on the
side you can start to do things whatever
that is for you what skills do you have
utilize the skills you have to start
bringing in an income look when I
started to monetize this
Channel and we're the monetization is
going backwards by the way but anyway
you know I'm at I think 20 probably the
same amount I was making back in 2014 or
something anyway doesn't matter this
channel here when I started it 65 I
think the first day I turned I didn't
turn monetization off on the first day I
started the channel but the first day I
started monetization I was making 65
cents 65 cents and I thought to myself
this is great at some point it's going
to pay my cell phone bill and I just
kept going kept going kept going and I
didn't let that stop me the fact that it
was 65 cents I just kept going knowing
that soon that's going to be 75 cents
and then 85 and that's how it was and it
just kept going and I've made thousands
upon thousands upon thousands of videos
trying to share the information that I
have whatever you want to do use the
skills that you have today you can
acquire new skills that's fantastic but
you can also use the skills you have
today to monetize them look if you are
interested in getting the knowhow if you
want the deeper insights that I have my
live classes this is where I need you to
be to be able to have two hours with me
on Friday and there's the two hours on
Sunday to be able to dive deep into this
information that we just can't get to on
a YouTube video okay it's it's totally
different it looks nothing it's all it's
presentation based and I create a
presentation every week for the Friday
class and I create a separate
presentation for the Sunday class we got
Q&A we got all the details right down in
that link below if you appreciate this
information before you go hit that
Thumbs Up Button I'm going to go see
Janet yelling I'll see you later bye